hey youtube we're back at base gym well
I never really left but the place got
locked down after the covert break
today's date is the 15th of June 2020
and it's been a disaster of a year for a
lot of people and two days ago in Sydney
the Prime Minister allowed for Jim to be
back open again so we're back and I'm
going to be trying to produce as much
great content for you guys to help you
learn about training I'm going to show
you what goes behind my training as
usual and give you a few tips along the
way today I'm gonna be training
upper-body because it's Monday we all
know it's international chest day so
actually it's going to be a little bit
different for me I am starting the
session with benchpress but then I'm
going to reintroduce the log I did it a
few cups about two or three weeks ago
and I hurt my shoulder a log pressed 165
kilograms on my second session back
after about 18 months so probably a
little bit too heavy for that session
today I'm not going to go as heavy I'm
gonna have a play around with the
technique to get it right so that what I
do reintroduce some good weight I don't
hurt myself but I'm gonna be starting my
session like all of my sessions with a
lot of activations and warm-ups why
don't you check it out
the first thing I did I already did one
step but I'm going to do another step
now this is called a lock lat pull so
heavy before it's not too heavy we're
taking the lap through this is Andrew
lock is one of the best rehabilitation
specialists in the game taught me this
exercise as a lat activation it's very
important to activate your lats before a
pressing session it stabilizes this bone
here it's a humerus and the function of
the lats is extension adduction and also
side flexion so we're getting three of
the main movements in this one exercise
Locklear oh eight reps so full stretch
protraction elevation and we're depress
the scapula and we're going to bring the
elbow towards that's also and flexed to
the side so side flexion really hits the
belly of the lap everything is slowed
deliberate activation activate not
annihilate full stretch full contraction
excellent loud exercise great for people
with shoulder pain that don't have a
great connection with their lats it's an
excellent way to teach the body how to
feel the lats
a lot of the times when I'm teaching
myself how to use these movements I
think about it's a common term in
bodybuilding it's called mind muscle
connection it's feeling the muscle
contract to overcome the way a lot of
strength athletes they don't really
think about it that way they think about
movements as moving away from A to B
with body building and feeling muscles
it's very good to think of internal cues
so thinking about the feeling of the LAT
contracting that's what I'm going for so
a lot of these exercises I even close my
eyes when I'm doing it because I don't
need to see it I need to feel it okay so
this exercise also taught to me by
Andrew I'll refer these name a lot is
someone that I work a lot with and I
don't need to use other techniques
because this is the stuff that works so
this is the anti rope so sorry the anti
bench so I'm holding the barbell in the
same position that I'll be holding the
lat pulldown handle in the same position
that I'll be holding a barbell and a
benchpress and instead of pushing I'm
pulling the exact same angle and this is
great book read else
okay so the idea is to activate the
opposing muscle groups of course we know
for a bench press the big pushing
muscles are the pecs the delts the
triceps so right now I'm doing the
opposing muscle groups that's a great
way to start to get the body warm I'm
gonna do one more set of that we'll go
straight in because I don't need a lot
of time to recover for this it's high
volume really low weight and just
thinking about the muscles that we're
trying to activate so think of that
upper back muscles so Reed they'll sit
back of the shoulder and also the middle
back muscles which is the rhomboids
before we get onto the bench I'm gonna
start warming up my pushing muscles easy
to start with just an empty bar now I
like to start here with with my first
plane on the bag which is going to be a
red plate so that'll be 70 kilograms and
I don't want to start just on 70
kilograms I'm gonna start on even
lighter than that come check it out 15
kilogram dumbbells yeah in a benchpress
I'm gonna arch and short your range of
motion with the dumbbell I get to take
the joints with me fullest range of
motion to get it nice and warm lots and
lots of reps really lightweight I
haven't even been counting but I'm
probably up to about 10 probably looking
to get about 20 reps on this
20 hours is fine because I'm not
fatigued myself at all that's really
like as the weights get heavier the rips
go long so 20 reps or so on the lot one
maybe I'll do 10 or 15 full stretch for
walk
I hear a lot of people ask you about the
grip the way you grip the way I grip my
dumbbells so I use the neutral grip for
the dumbbells and I I choose that grip
whenever I use a dumbbell because the
way that I see it I do about 50% of my
work is with a barbell and 50% of my
work is with dumbbells so the barbell I
don't have the option to change where my
hands go it's a pronated grip only so
what I want to do with my dumbbells is
utilize as much variation as possible
with my movement so I don't see the
point of doing so much pronated work
with that that with the barbell just so
that I can come and do my variation work
with the exact same grip when I have a
choice to go neutral so there's number
one it's variation number two even with
the barbell one of the cues that's
taught is to pull the bar apart of Bend
the bar what we're asking for is
external rotation of this bone because
externally rotating that bone tucks the
elbows and in the full stretch position
where the barbells on the chest the
neutral hand position externally rotated
humerus is where the shoulder is at its
healthiest in the full stretch position
not saying it's unhealthy to be pronated
it's just more comfortable to be neutral
so when we have the option to go neutral
in the dump with the dumbbells that's
what I recommend and for me it's helped
a lot it's helped a hell of a lot I'm
all about show the health not just saw
the strength so the health is shoulder
strength so I'll do my main work here
with the barbell usually on a pronated
and as much as possible when I get to do
my accessory exercise with the dumbbell
I'd use as much variation as possible so
hope that answers your question so these
are two and a half kilograms so this is
again this is the professional clips
that they're using competition and
sometimes it makes it hard when you're
adding up
you know like usually most bodybuilders
do like one plane that's 20 kilograms
yeah one and a half plants that a half
the plane is a 10 kilograms so so one
plane is 60 kilograms usually but now
I've got one plate with the tip is 75 so
it gets confusing when you do the tips
but when you get used to using the clips
you create your whole new numbers with
the clips so I probably my idea today is
to to do a moderate weight I'm going to
do I'm thinking of doing 180 kilograms
to two sets of five I'm currently at
about 200 kilograms supply so it's quite
more Oh
[Music]
you might notice that my technique looks
a little bit different today especially
the setup different the tutorials that
I've put out there before and the reason
is that I haven't changed my technique
it's the same technique but what I have
changed is that I trained by myself now
I haven't had the option of having
training partners during this lockdown
period so I had to learn how to unwrap
the weight for myself the safest way
possible unwrapping the barbell is
actually quite an uncomfortable thing
and can cause injury so what I'm doing
is setting my feet up so I'm pushing my
hips all the way up in the air so I'm
essentially in a decline position when I
unwrap the way I don't want to be out
racking it from back here and dragging
it over I'm not strong enough like as
the way it's getting heavier it's like
doing a pullover with this is gonna be a
hundred and seventy five kilograms I'm
not strong enough so I set myself up
when I when I Drive my hips in the air
I'm essentially pressing it in the same
position and then when I bring my feet
down my arm angle changes so it's a lot
healthier for my joints for my shoulder
joint to start up in that decline
position from the unrack and then when I
bring my feet down I'm getting into the
exact same technique that I use in all
of my tutorials that used to watching me
do so it's the same technique but just a
slightly different setup and when I have
someone helping me unrack I'll be doing
the exact same techniques that I've been
teaching you guys all along so don't
don't do what I do here and unless you
by yourself you can give it a try it's
in my opinion an easier way and a
healthy way for the shoulders to unwrap
when it's a cellphone right okay 175 on
the bar last one
[Music]
so there's two sets of five on 180
that's submaximal it's a way than our
respect and actually only doing like
doing less than what I am capable of
isn't going to make me weaker either I
know that it's a little bit more than a
kind of like addi load weight so it's a
weight that I need to absolutely respect
my best on that which I did recently has
ten reps and I feel like strong enough
to do that as well just now but just
because you can do something doesn't
mean you should so that's a great
warm-up for me for my goal was today
which is log press so that's not for
taking me that's making me feel good
like I feel like I could very easily do
three more sets and go even heavier but
instead of spending that energy then I'm
gonna spend my energy log pressing so
time to rewarm up a new movement let's
do it
check out the t-shirt check it out check
it out so this is a grip to power it's a
strong man sure it's got you can see
everyone sent me a message saying what's
that shirt the clothing you have with
all the armor that you're wearing it's
not armor it's just a t-shirt but it's
got grippy rubber plastic whatever that
material is which I'll teach you why I
need that for a log press it helps it
stick it to my chest as I'm rolling it
up my body when I just have a regular
t-shirt it gets slippery encompass all
those yeah yeah fleeing competition they
all wear stuff like this another
technique as well as to use spray tacky
which is like a essentially like a glue
that's allowed it just ruins your
t-shirts so instead of ruining all my
t-shirts about specialize the t-shirt
yeah yeah for me for my overhead
pressing I've got pretty poor shoulder
mobility and and actually having the
elevator here
allows me to hold the log overhead and
push my head through so that's what I
need to be focusing on when I do barbell
I used to do a lot of flat salt lifting
for my overhead pressing and it's very
hard for me to get my head through on
the on the lockout so with the elevated
heels it allows me to get a better
position before that so look at all the
equipment all all the gear and no idea
so I got shin sleeves said on bruises
shell machines
I got knee sleeves to protect the joints
elbow sleeves all of this belts etc
so in strongman competitions you're
allowed to have extra support so you'll
see the way that I have to hold the bar
over one it's got to be on my neck so
when I clean it up it's gonna be on my
neck and I can't be completely up front
with the weight here I've got to lean
back so that it's resting on my upper
chest
and to lean back that puts my log back
in extension so that's why I need to be
bracing my course and using whatever's
allowed in composition which is this
belt and it allows me to arch back a
little bit without hurting myself come
check it out
[Music]
got a lot of amazing log presses on my
team there's one in particular in
Australia that's helping me a lot with
technique that's wrong go keen obviously
I work with a lot of other great blog
presses half-thought Graeme Hicks Luke
Stockman these are all some of the names
that are in my team but I'm not really
learning how to log press from these
guys and I don't teach them the
technique blog Prezi that I teach them a
lot about strategies with with
programming with barber work with
techniques so that's my specialties the
barber work which has a huge carryover
for my strength athletes in other sports
apart from powerlifting as well but yes
so this is an exercise so a bench press
is where I'm usually known for teaching
people the techniques and I'm pretty
good with that technique I've got a
pretty good bench press and the log
press my log press isn't bad but it's
definitely not one of those movements
that I claim to be an expert at not yet
anyway I plan to be though
but right now the techniques that you
see me doing I'm sure there's a lot of
you out there that are going to pull it
apart and say no you should have your
feet here your hands here
trust me I've got good guidance so you
don't have to tell me what I'm doing
wrong I've got great guidance so Ron go
keen I'm working very closely with him
he's Australia's biggest log press at
207 kilogram log press and definitely
working on my technique
so trust me when I say this is that
there's a lot of errors that you can
pull apart here but I'm working on
[Music]
it's like honey three reps but a trip
you had to clean it and that's like a
lot of energy just clean anyway so I'm
like three reps of the bench where it's
over and five seconds
oh you gotta reset it each time yeah
I'll need about ten minutes rest
[Music]
so that's all of my main pressing work
is done it doesn't seem like it's a lot
of work because all I did was two sets
of bench and then two sets of log press
but due to the weight and the complexity
of the movement it ends up being a lot
of work so that's all my pushing done
now I'm going to balance that out the
way I balance that out is a push-pull
ratio of 1 to 1 so if you've been
following me for long enough you know
that every time I do a set of pressing
whether it's bench press or a log press
or any type of press
I'll parent with the pull-up pulldown
row whatever
so I've done basically 4 top sets of
pushing exercises to balance that out I
don't want to even try and think that
one set of rows is equivalent to a set
of those that I just did so I'll
probably do three sets of a vertical
pull and three sets of a horizontal push
so keep it simple I'll go and do three
such sets of each of those come check it
out
so that's 12 reps I talked about
push-pull ratio of 1 to 1 I talked about
sets so that's one set of 12 for one set
of 3 I'm logged press so it's like it
doesn't mean if I'm doing a lot of rep
set over there on the press that I need
to do lower upset on the pool an
exercise like this or I'll that pulldown
doesn't really make sense to do low reps
with the muscles that I'm trying to
target which is my upper back muscles
they develop a lot better with a higher
rep range the next thing I like to do if
you notice I like to have come to a
complete stop in the fully contracted
position this is very specific to what
I'm doing with my log press so a
technique with the log press when I'm so
I pick it up put on my lap from this
position here I'm doing this road
movement I'm pulling that bar into my
chest at south as I can when I stand I'm
not cleaning like you would in a weight
lifting technique or a barbell with a
barbell I'm keeping the log glutes in my
chest
by using my upper back muscles by
squeezing it back as hard as I can and
then when I stand it just stays with me
the whole time so notice my sauce that's
my back muscles I need to get them
really strong so that's why I love this
exercise for upper back development
that's going to have a great carryover
from a log and the best way to do that
is to really focus on that contracted
position so spend a lot of time there up
hold ctrl down so the biggest technical
area that I see with pull downs rows
anything like that is chopping movements
chocolate mousse don't chop squeeze that
way squeeze that way or I can feel it in
my back just even imitate in that
movement pumped up full of but wait a
couple of minutes do another set
now we're going to do a vertical pool
movement so we did a horizontal pool
with the chest supported t-bar rows and
now just a lat pulldown taking my
shoulder joint through horizontal and
vertical planes for the pool pattern of
course I did the same thing with the
push pattern the bench press is
horizontal push and the log press is a
vertical push so pairing multiple
directions with the shoulder joint on
push and pull is my favorite way of
creating healthy structurally balanced
shoulder again I'm going to do high reps
on this one just because I did low reps
on my pushing doesn't mean I should do
low reps and heavy weight on my foot not
that type of exercise they respond the
pulling movements like the Rosen and
pull downs respond to lock that out to
higher reps
[Music]
another couple cents
and that's Monday upper-body session I'm
very happy with today's session I didn't
go as heavy as I could on everything but
there's still a very difficult session
it was perfectly structurally balanced
in that I did the same amount of sets of
my pulling as I did on my pushing in
fact I did a few more sets with my
pulling which is always recommended and
that's all for today
great starts of the week of trying to
get in a couple of days I hope you
enjoyed the session click like subscribe
ask whatever questions you like and I'll
try and answer them for the next session
happy training guys